Official API Review for new functionalities of Storage.Pickers: SettingsIdentifier; InitialFileTypeIndex; Title; PickMultipleFoldersAsync; ShowOverwritePrompt (#6051)
microsoft/WindowsAppSDK: specs/Storage.Pickers/Microsoft.Windows.Storage.Pickers.md

catagorized filter types. When both `FileTypeChoices` and `FileTypeFilter` are provided, 
`FileTypeChoices` is used and `FileTypeFilter` is ignored.

> 1. Adding `FileTypeIndex` for `FileOpenPicker` and `FileSavePicker`. This allows setting the default selected file type filter index. Note this index is 1-based. When it is 0 (the default value), the selected filter might be override by the API's default behavior.

Reviewer: Thanks @DinahK-2SO for the info. I agree with @kmahone to use 0-based index (with default to `-1` or nullable) for the standard and consistency

> 1. Adding `FileTypeIndex` for `FileOpenPicker` and `FileSavePicker`. This allows setting the default selected file type filter index. Note this index is 1-based. When it is 0 (the default value), the selected filter might be override by the API's default behavior.

Author: Thanks. Updated.

> 1. Adding `FileTypeIndex` for `FileOpenPicker` and `FileSavePicker`. This allows setting the default selected file type filter index. Note this index is 1-based. When it is 0 (the default value), the selected filter might be override by the API's default behavior.

Author: Official API review decided to:
1. use 0-based index
2. default value to -1
3. adds validation on setting and throws error when user tries to set with value smaller than -1

> 1. The property `SettingsIdentifier` for all 3 pickers will be available in the new Storage.Pickers APIs from WindowsAppSDK2.0. `SettingsIdentifier` allows the picker to remember its state (e.g. size, location, etc) across sessions. When two different apps use the same string for SettingsIdentifier property, they will have their respective independent states.

Author: Yes, for unpackaged apps, we're using the full path - such as ` C:\softwares\TestApp.exe`. I will add more details.

catagorized filter types. When both `FileTypeChoices` and `FileTypeFilter` are provided, 
`FileTypeChoices` is used and `FileTypeFilter` is ignored.

1. Adding `DefaultFileTypeIndex` for `FileOpenPicker` and `FileSavePicker`. This allows 
setting the default selected file type filter index. Note this index is 0-based. When it is 

> null (the default value), the selected filter might be override by the API's default behavior.

Reviewer 2: "When the value is -1, the system will pick the selected filter."

> null (the default value), the selected filter might be override by the API's default behavior.

Author: fixed!

1. The property `SettingsIdentifier` for all 3 pickers will be available in the new Storage.Pickers 

> APIs from WindowsAppSDK2.0. `SettingsIdentifier` allows the picker to remember its state (e.g. size, 

Reviewer 2: fix

location, etc) across sessions. When two different apps use the same string for SettingsIdentifier 

> property, they will have their respective independent states (Read more in Note 2).

Reviewer 2: Note 2 is at the end of the file.

1. Adding `ShowOverwritePrompt` for `FileSavePicker`. This Boolean properties default to `true` and 

> control whether the picker warns about overwriting when user picked an existing file via 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Adding `ShowOverwritePrompt` for `FileSavePicker`. This Boolean property defaults to `true` and 
controls whether the picker warns about overwriting when the user picked an existing file via the 
```

Reviewer 2: fix

FileSavePicker.

1. Adding `CreateNewFileIfNotExists` for `FileSavePicker`. This Boolean properties default to `true` 

> and control whether to auto-create the picked file when it doesn't exist.

Author: fixed!

        FileOpenPicker(Microsoft.UI.WindowId windowId);

        string CommitButtonText;
        string Title;
        string SettingsIdentifier;

        IMap<string, IVector<string>> FileTypeChoices{ get; };

>         IVector<string> FileTypeFilter{ get; };

Author: Hi @kmahone , please find answers seperately:

Answer to question 1 and 2: the FileTypeChoices is like an upgraded version of FileTypeFilter. In UWP, the FIleOpenPicker has FileTypeFilter ( it is vector based ) and FileSavePicker has FileTypeChoices. The first version of new pickers implemented both of them for backward campatibility.

The FIleTypeChoices (map based) is so useful that developers request FileOpenPicker to have it too, so we added it in FileOpenPicker later on. Their precedence is: FileTypeChoices over FileTypeFilter.

3. The DefaultFileTypeFilterIndex works both on FileTypeFilter and FileTypeChoices - It simply point out the file type to be focused on opening the dialog. (On a second thought, It might be better named as DefaultFileTypeIndex. How do you like it? )

for example,

if the picker has file type filter: 
[".txt", ".doc", ".docx"], 
and index is set to 1, 
the ".doc" is selected.

if the picker has FileTypeChoices: 
{
    "Texts": [".txt"],
    "Documents": [".doc", ".docx"],
}
and the index is set to 1, 
the "Documents": [".doc", ".docx"] will be selected.

>         IVector<string> FileTypeFilter{ get; };

Author: Hi @kmahone , please find answers separately:

**Answer to question 1 and 2:** 
The FileTypeChoices is like an upgraded version of FileTypeFilter. In UWP, the FIleOpenPicker has FileTypeFilter ( it is vector based ) and FileSavePicker has FileTypeChoices. The first version of new pickers implemented both of them for backward compatibility.

The FIleTypeChoices (map based) is so useful that developers request FileOpenPicker to have it too, so we added it in FileOpenPicker later on. Their precedence is: FileTypeChoices over FileTypeFilter.

**Answer to question 3:** 
The DefaultFileTypeFilterIndex works both on FileTypeFilter and FileTypeChoices - It simply point out the file type to be focused on opening the dialog. (On a second thought, It might be better named as DefaultFileTypeIndex. How do you like it? )

For example,

if the picker has file type filter: 
[".txt", ".doc", ".docx"], 
and index is set to 1, 
the ".doc" is selected.

if the picker has FileTypeChoices: 
{
    "Texts": [".txt"],
    "Documents": [".doc", ".docx"],
}
and the index is set to 1, 
the "Documents": [".doc", ".docx"] will be selected.

>         IVector<string> FileTypeFilter{ get; };

Author: Hi @kmahone , thanks for bringing up this topic! I have added a note for the file type related properties.

In short:
1. We can see FileTypeChoices is an more customizable version of FileTypeFilter.
2. The FileTypeFilter of open picker is retained for backward compatibility.
3. The index property applies to both.

I also renamed the index property to be `DefaultFileTypeIndex`, as it applies to both `FileTypeFilter` and `FileTypeChoices`.
Please let me know your thoughts!

>         IVector<string> FileTypeFilter{ get; };

Reviewer 3: This discussion is helpful and resolves some of my earlier comments.  I agree with the conceptual model point, and a single index to control both Choices and Filters.  However, I'd change the name to FileTypeIndex to more clearly indicate its purpose in initializing the dialog, vs providing a fallback value in the absence of the user providing one (which is what a default does).  That also clears up some of the muddled language around having a "default" (first Filter or last Group) for a missing "default" (DefaultFileTypeIndex not assigned).

>         IVector<string> FileTypeFilter{ get; };

Reviewer 2: RECOMMENDED:

```
Int32 InitialFileTypeIndex;
```

>         IVector<string> FileTypeFilter{ get; };

Author: Thanks for joining the conversation! I have updated the spec.

API. The implementation derives that `ClientGuid` as follows:

- First it tries to obtain the packaged app's Identity via [`GetCurrentApplicationUserModelId`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/appmodel/nf-appmodel-getcurrentapplicationusermodelid).
- If the process has no package identity found (typical for unpackaged apps, win32 apps, etc.), 
    it falls back to the full path to the running executable retrieved from `wil::GetModuleFileNameW`.
- The chosen identifier is concatenated with the caller-provided `SettingsIdentifier` value using a
    `"<app identifier>|<value of SettingsIdentifier>"` format. That string is then hashed with MD5 
    and coerced into an GUID.
- The calculated GUID will be passed to set the `ClientGuid`.

This means the feature works for both packaged and unpackaged apps. Packaged apps remain distinct by
their package identity, while unpackaged apps are differentiated by the absolute path of their
executable. As long as an app uses a stable combination of package identity (or executable path) and
`SettingsIdentifier`, the picker will reopen with the same saved settings across sessions.

> #### Note 3: Properties for File Types and Their Default Index

Author: @kmahone Please find the note of file types related properties here.

We can think of the grouped, map-like `FileTypeChoices` as an evolution of the vector-style
`FileTypeFilter`: The UWP pickers originally paired `FileOpenPicker` with `FileTypeFilter` and 
`FileSavePicker` with `FileTypeChoices`, so the first release of the `Microsoft.Windows.Storage.Pickers` 
retained both properties for backward compatibility.

Later on, with developers' requests for a categorized experience in `FileOpenPicker`, we added 
`FileTypeChoices` for FileOpenPicker as well. 
When both properties are specified in `FileOpenPicker`, `FileTypeChoices` takes precedence.

**(2) The DefaultFileTypeIndex**

In this spec, we're adding `DefaultFileTypeIndex`. It applies to whichever file type collection is 
active and simply points to the auto-selected entry on dialog launch. For example:

- `FileTypeFilter` = `[".txt", ".doc", ".docx"]` 

    with `DefaultFileTypeIndex = 1` 
    
    selects `".doc"`.
- `FileTypeChoices` = `{ "Texts": [".txt"], "Documents": [".doc", ".docx"] }` 

   with `DefaultFileTypeIndex = 1` 
   
   selects the `Documents` group.

Additionally, if the index falls outside the available range, we treat it as `-1`, meaning the 

> picker ignores this setting and follows its built-in default.

Author: @kmahone Please find the note of file types related properties here.
